# simulated_annealing

The goal was to find a solution to the np-hard problem of ordering wizards based on a set of given constraints. We decided to use simulated annealing to find a very close approximation to the solution.

We used simulated annealing to find the optimal state of the system. Our goal was to find the optimal solution or to find a close-to-optimal solution (within 4 violated constraints) so that we would either already have the ordering or we could manually find the ordering from the smaller set of violated constraints. The general algorithm was to start with a random state, and then the first step would to randomly move or alter the state. In this case it would be to flip any two wizards in their order. We would then calculate the energy of the new state. The energy was basically a value that directly correlated with the number of unsatisfied constraints. Now we then compare the energy and temperature of the new state with the previous state and then determine whether to "accept" the new state or to "reject" it which would then bring us back to the beginning of the loop. The temperature is a value that decreases exponentially as the algorithm progresses and it is responsible for helping ensure that the algorithm does not converge on a local minima of energy. For a new state to be "accepted" it must meet one of the two requirements that show the algorithm that we are moving towards an optimal solution. 1) The move causes a decrease in state energy or 2) the move increases the state energy but the temperature stays within a set of predetermined bounds. As mentioned earlier, if the temperature drops too much after taking a state that increases the energy, then we are most likely converging on a local minima. The parameters we used for the simulated annealing algorithm changed based on the size of the inputs but mostly for the student inputs, we had a time boundary of 5 minutes and for the staff inputs that we were able to solve we had a time input of 20 minutes. In terms of the max temperature and the min temperature, the python library that we used had an auto_schedule function, which chose ideal values for that based on the inputs and so optimized that part of the algorithm.


The python solver library that we used is called Simanneal (https://github.com/perrygeo/simanneal) and it is just a python module for simulated annealing optimization.
